# Are-stopwords-really-useless-


Sentiment Analysis is probably one of the simplest applications for NLP (Natural Language Processing). The ability for a computer to get the polarity of a user's comment has beeen, since the beginning, extremely interesting. Moore's law rules unformally that in about two years we will double the number of transistors on a microchip at half the price. This has been valid for a long time, but it's now probably at its end and someone claims that 2022 is goonna be its death's year. Now, in the meantime, something else than computation power is spreading its wings and it's what we refer to as Big Data.

This huge amount of data that is exponentially growing is the reason of the machine learning's rise, and now of the neural network's rise (deep learning). Let's consider a big company, selling some item, or providing a service, in a world where every customer is somehow brought to publish something about its experience. It can be a new pair of shoes, the brand new song of a teen group, a dinner in that cool fancy new restaurant downtown, the new mobile internet connection of our old provider. In every case, especially where the number of comments grows exponentially, we need an automatic way to translate what is unstructured (human thoughts) in categories that a computer can process. The simplest form is simply getting if the user is expressing a good or a bad mood about its purchase. If we have ten thousand comments about our new service and seven thousand express a positive mood, that's something we could start from.

Kaggle is probably the most famous data science community and it was founded in 2010. They publish many datasets, hosting plenty of competitions, often with prizes in money. In my analysis, I used a dataset released by Kaggle, whose name is: Sentiment140 dataset with 1.6 million tweets. It consists of 1,600,000 tweets, half labeled as positive and half negative.

From the Naive Bayes classification algorythms to the neural networks used to build modern chatbots, NLP' impact is rising more and more. In this space, I would like to focus on details or issues related to NLP, possibly practicing some techniques and trying to see if we can gain some extra-knowledge we can use.
